Introduce Task#enumerator_builder (#326)
Shopify/maintenance_tasks: README.md

My Title,Hello World!
```

### Creating a custom Task

TODO: Add generation instructions

If you have a special use case requiring iteration over an unsupported
collection type, such as external resources fetched from some API, you can
implement the `enumerator_builder` method instead.

This method should return an object responding to `enumerator(context:)` with
an Enumerator, yielding pairs of `[item, item_cursor]` to the `process` method
your Task defines. In order for your enumerator to support resuming iteration
part way through, you may use the `context.cursor`.

You may optionally provide an implementation for `count`, if appropriate.

```ruby
# app/tasks/maintenance/shopping_list_task.rb
module Maintenance
  class ShoppingListTask < MaintenanceTasks::Task
    def enumerator_builder
      IngredientsEnumerator.new
    end

    def process(ingredient)
      ShoppingList.add(ingredient)
    end

    class IngredientEnumerator
      def enumerator(context:)
        Enumerator.new do |yielder|
          cursor = context.cursor

          if cursor.nil?
            recipe = FancyRecipeAPI.random_recipe
            ingredient_id = nil
          else

>             recipe_id, ingredient_id = cursor.split(':', 2)

Reviewer: I feel like this example with the two levels of id is a bit too complex. Also a bit weird that the ingredients would be paginated. Can we make it just about a list of recipes being paginated maybe?

Better yet we could use something commerce related in a nod to Shopify? https://shopify.dev/docs/admin-api/rest/reference/orders/order?api[version]=2020-04#index-2020-04 using `Order`, `since_id` and `limit` as the name/params in the example?

            recipe = FancyRecipeAPI.recipe(recipe_id)
          end

          loop do
            page = if ingredient_id.nil?
              FancyRecipeAPI
                .paginated_ingredients(recipe.id, max: 5)
            else
              FancyRecipeAPI
                .paginated_ingredients(recipe.id, max: 5, after: ingredient_id)
            end

            page.entries.each do |ingredient|
              ingredient_id = ingredient.id
              cursor = "#{recipe.id}:#{ingredient.id}"

              yielder.yield([ingredient, cursor])
            end

            break unless page.has_next?
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

In some cases, you may have no use for a cursor (e.g. taking items off a queue
until it is empty), in which case your Enumerator may yield `nil`

> cursors (i.e. pairs of `[item, nil]`).

Reviewer: Wouldn't that work by simply yielding the item by itself?
```ruby
foo = Enumerator.new { |y| y.yield :item }
# => #<Enumerator: #<Enumerator::Generator:0x00007faf8dac0b90>:each>
foo.each do |item, cursor| p item, cursor end
# :item
# nil
# => [:item, nil]
```

Author: Yeah, we identified both
- wanting to have consumers be explicit about not having a cursor, as well as
- the existence of a "footgun", in the case where the `element` they want to yield is an array
  (say they're implementing a cursorless custom batched task, or forget to include a cursor for a custom task yielding pairs)

```ruby
def example(&block)
  Enumerator.new(&block).each do |element, cursor|
    puts "element: #{element.inspect.ljust(16)} cursor: #{cursor.inspect}"
  end
end

example { |y| y.yield :item, :cursor }              # element: :item            cursor: :cursor
example { |y| y.yield :item, nil }                  # element: :item            cursor: nil
example { |y| y.yield :item }                       # element: :item            cursor: nil

example { |y| y.yield [:item, :cursor] }            # element: :item            cursor: :cursor
example { |y| y.yield [:item, nil] }                # element: :item            cursor: nil
example { |y| y.yield [:item] }                     # element: :item            cursor: nil

example { |y| y.yield [[:pair1, :pair2], :cursor] } # element: [:pair1, :pair2] cursor: :cursor
example { |y| y.yield [[:pair1, :pair2], nil] }     # element: [:pair1, :pair2] cursor: nil
example { |y| y.yield [[:pair1, :pair2]] }          # element: [:pair1, :pair2] cursor: nil

example { |y| y.yield [:pair1, :pair2], :cursor }   # element: [:pair1, :pair2] cursor: :cursor
example { |y| y.yield [:pair1, :pair2], nil }       # element: [:pair1, :pair2] cursor: nil
example { |y| y.yield [:pair1, :pair2] }            # element: :pair1           cursor: :pair2
                                                    # cursor forgotten or omitted?      ^^^^^^
```

Without an explicit cursor, we're unable to distinguish between yielding an array, or yielding and item and cursor. This occurs for any case where they array has more than one element:

```ruby
example { |y| y.yield [:pair1, :pair2, :pair3] }    # element: :pair1           cursor: :pair2
                                                    # cursor forgotten or omitted?      ^^^^^^
```

Author: That said, I'm not sure how to implement that restriction, given the way block variables are auto-unpacked, so we might have to leave it. 🤷

Reviewer 2: Let's leave it, we'll make things clear in the documentation!

My Title,Hello World!
```

> ### Creating a custom Task

Reviewer 2: Can you add this section in the [Table of Contents](https://github.com/Shopify/maintenance_tasks#table-of-contents) too?

module Maintenance
  class ShoppingListTask < MaintenanceTasks::Task
    def enumerator_builder
      IngredientsEnumerator.new
    end

    def process(ingredient)
      ShoppingList.add(ingredient)
    end

    class IngredientEnumerator
      def enumerator(context:)
        Enumerator.new do |yielder|
          cursor = context.cursor

          if cursor.nil?
            recipe = FancyRecipeAPI.random_recipe
            ingredient_id = nil
          else
            recipe_id, ingredient_id = cursor.split(':', 2)
            recipe = FancyRecipeAPI.recipe(recipe_id)
          end

          loop do
            page = if ingredient_id.nil?
              FancyRecipeAPI
                .paginated_ingredients(recipe.id, max: 5)
            else
              FancyRecipeAPI
                .paginated_ingredients(recipe.id, max: 5, after: ingredient_id)
            end

            page.entries.each do |ingredient|
              ingredient_id = ingredient.id
              cursor = "#{recipe.id}:#{ingredient.id}"

              yielder.yield([ingredient, cursor])
            end

            break unless page.has_next?
          end
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

> In some cases, you may have no use for a cursor (e.g. iterating over some
> collection until it is empty), in which case your Enumerator may yield `nil`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, you may have no use for a cursor (e.g. taking items off a queue
until it is empty), in which case your Enumerator may yield `nil`
```
Maybe `queue` instead of `collection` to make things clearer?

My Title,Hello World!
```

### Creating a custom Task

TODO: Add generation instructions

> If you have a special use case requiring iteration over an unsupported resource, you can implement the `enumerator_builder` method instead. For example, you may need to iterate over external resources fetch from some API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a special use case requiring iteration over an unsupported collection type, such as external resources fetched from some API, you can implement the `enumerator_builder` method instead.
```

This method should return an object responding to `enumerator(context:)` with an Enumerator, yielding pairs of `[item, item_cursor]`. In order for your enumerator to support resuming iteration part way through, you may use the `context.cursor`.

> You may optionally provide an implementation for `count`, if appropriate.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should add a line about needing to implement `process` as well?

Author: I wasn't sure about that one, since it seems like a given. Maybe if I integrate it into the previous paragraph?

> ...yielding pairs of `[item, item_cursor]` **to the `process` method your `Task` defines.** In order for...

Reviewer 2: Perfect!

```ruby

> # app/tasks/maintenance/pay_last_months_invoices_task.rb

Reviewer 2: Love both of these examples, but WDYT about having a `Maintenance::ShoppingListTask` example that readers can refer to for the `Writing test for a custom Task` section? I think it would improve the understandability of the test examples to see a corresponding Task 😄

Author: Yeah, I was wondering the same thing after I wrote them out. I'll throw something together.

It's funny writing fake code for made up problems 🤣

Author: Done. I replaced `PayLastMonthsInvoicesTask` with `ShoppingListTask`, and `UnbanUsersTask` with `PurgeIngredientsTask`, which I then included tests for. I took the opportunity to describe testing the enumerator builder inline and in isolation, respectively. If it's too wordy, I figure we can collapse them using `<details />`.

I actually had to change up my hypothetical `ShoppingListTask`, as the behaviour I had been "testing" for would have been really gnarly to implement because of the nested iteration and composite cursor 😅

end
```

### Writing test for a custom Task

As with other tasks, you should write tests for your `#process` method. It will receive the first item in each pair your custom Enumerator yields (`[item, item_cursor]`).

You should also ensure your Enumerator is tested by unit testing it in isolation, testing your `#enumerator_builder` method, or both. Make sure you test how your Enumerator handles the absence or presence of a `context.cursor`, if applicable.

```ruby
# app/tasks/maintenance/shopping_list_task.rb
module Maintenance

>   class ShoppingListTask < ActiveSupport::TestCase

Reviewer 2: THESE TEST EXAMPLES THO! ❤️  🌮  😋

end
```

### Writing test for a custom Task

As with other tasks, you should write tests for your `#process` method. It will
receive the first item in each pair your custom Enumerator yields (`[item,
item_cursor]`).

You should also ensure your Enumerator is tested, by unit testing it in
isolation, testing your `#enumerator_builder` method, or both. Make sure you

> test how your Enumerator handles the absence or presence of a `context.cursor`,

Reviewer: I think this is the main advice we should give them about testing their EnumeratorBuilder.

          .enumerator(context: context).to_a

        assert_equal expected_ingredient_pairs, actual_ingredient_pairs
      end
    end

    test '#enumerator_builder.enumerator enumerates remaining ingredients for the cursor recipe' do
      FancyRecipeAPI.fake_it_till_you_make_it do
        expected_ingredient_pairs = ingredient_pairs(recipes(:vegan_tacos))
        ingredients_so_far = expected_ingredient_pairs.shift(3)
        cursor = ingredients_so_far.last.last

        context = stub('context', cursor: cursor)
        actual_ingredient_pairs = ShoppingListTask.enumerator_builder
          .enumerator(context: context).to_a

        assert_equal expected_ingredient_pairs, actual_ingredient_pairs
      end
    end

    test '#count returns nil, as we cannot guess the recipe choice' do
      assert_nil ShoppingListTask.count
    end

    private

    def ingredient_pairs(recipe)
      recipe.ingredients.map do |ingredient|
        cursor = "#{recipe.id}:#{ingredient.id}"
        [ingredient, cursor]
      end
    end
  end
end
```

Depending on its complexity, you may choose to test your Enumerator builder in

> isolation, in which case you can simplify the tests for your Task.

Reviewer: I don't think we should go so much into details about how people should test their apps.

end
```

### Writing test for a custom Task

As with other tasks, you should write tests for your `#process` method. It will
receive the first item in each pair your custom Enumerator yields (`[item,
item_cursor]`).

You should also ensure your Enumerator is tested, by unit testing it in
isolation, testing your `#enumerator_builder` method, or both. Make sure you
test how your Enumerator handles the absence or presence of a `context.cursor`,
if applicable.

```ruby
# test/tasks/maintenance/shopping_list_task_test.rb
module Maintenance
  class ShoppingListTaskTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
    test '#process adds ingredients to the shopping list' do
      ingredient = recipes(:tacos).first
      ShoppingList.expects(:add).with(ingredient)

      ShoppingListTask.process(ingredient)
    end

    test '#enumerator_builder.enumerator enumerates ingredients for a random recipe' do

>       FancyRecipeApi.fake_it_till_you_make_it do

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      FancyRecipeAPI.fake_it_till_you_make_it do
```

        recipe = recipes(:tacos)
        FancyRecipeAPI.expects(:random_recipe).returns(recipe)

        expected_ingredient_pairs = ingredient_pairs(recipe)

        context = stub('context', cursor: nil)
        actual_ingredient_pairs = ShoppingListTask.enumerator_builder
          .enumerator(context: context).to_a

        assert_equal expected_ingredient_pairs, actual_ingredient_pairs
      end
    end

    test '#enumerator_builder.enumerator enumerates remaining ingredients for the cursor recipe' do

>       FancyRecipeApi.fake_it_till_you_make_it do

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      FancyRecipeAPI.fake_it_till_you_make_it do
```

        expected_ingredient_pairs = ingredient_pairs(recipes(:vegan_tacos))
        ingredients_so_far = expected_ingredient_pairs.shift(3)
        cursor = ingredients_so_far.last.last

        context = stub('context', cursor: cursor)
        actual_ingredient_pairs = ShoppingListTask.enumerator_builder
          .enumerator(context: context).to_a

        assert_equal expected_ingredient_pairs, actual_ingredient_pairs
      end
    end

    test '#count returns nil, as we cannot guess the recipe choice' do
      assert_nil ShoppingListTask.count
    end

    private

    def ingredient_pairs(recipe)
      recipe.ingredients.map do |ingredient|
        cursor = "#{recipe.id}:#{ingredient.id}"
        [ingredient, cursor]
      end
    end
  end
end
```

> Dependaing on its complexity, you may choose to test your Enumerator builder in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on its complexity, you may choose to test your Enumerator builder in
```

    ingredients(:green_potatoes).tap do |ingredient|
      PantryAPI.stock(ingredient)
      expirees << ingredient
    end

    ingredients(:curdled_milk).tap do |ingredient|
      FridgeAPI.stock(ingredient)
      expirees << ingredient
    end

    FridgeAPI.stock(ingredients(:leftover_pizza))

    ingredients(
      :entire_pack_of_strawberries_ruined_by_that_single_one_that_had_mold,
    ).tap do |ingredient|
      FridgeAPI.stock(ingredient)
      expirees << ingredient
    end

    ingredients(:mysterious_container).tap do |ingredient|
      FreezerAPI.stock(ingredient)
      expirees << ingredient
    end

    FreezerAPI.stock(ingredients(:ice_cubes))

    expected_pairs = expirees.map do |ingredient|
      cursor = nil
      [ingredient, cursor]
    end

    context = stub('context')
    context.expects(:cursor).never

    actual_pairs =
      ExpiredIngredientsEnumerator.enumerator(context: context).to_a

    assert_equal expected_pairs, actual_pairs
  end

  test '#enumerator is empty if no expired ingredients' do
    PantryAPI.stock(ingredients(:tortillas))

    assert_empty ExpiredIngredientsEnumerator.enumerator(context: context).to_a
  end
end
```

> </details>

Reviewer 2: This is a good idea! 👍  I think we might need to wrap the entire thing in a paragraph element to get the code blocks to work inside a collapsible:

```
<details><p>

{{code examples}}
</p></details>

Author: Yeah, I've run into that issue before, but I think the blank line is enough.

Indeed,

    <details><summary>Busted code snippet</summary>
    ```ruby
    puts ':('
    ```
    </details>

produces

<details><summary>Busted code snippet</summary>
```ruby
puts ':('
```
</details>

but in my experience all it needs to work is a blank line before it, as you've incidentally included in your example:

    <details><summary>Working code snippet</summary>

    ```ruby
    puts ':)'
    ```
    </details>
    
produces

<details><summary>Working code snippet</summary>

```ruby
puts ':)'
```
</details>

The `<p>` doesn't seem to be needed, unless I missed something.
